README.md, before:

# api-layer

[Build Status](https://wash.zowe.org:8443/job/API_Mediation/job/master/)

The home of Zowe API Mediation Layer

## Prequisites 

Following platform is required to run the API Mediation Layer:

 * Oracle or IBM Java SE Development Kit 8 (http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html or https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/java/jdk/), Java 10 is not supported
  
### Other development prerequisites

Following tools are required to build and develop API Mediation Layer:

 * Node.js 8.11.1 or higher (https://nodejs.org/en/) - to build UI modules
 * concurently (https://www.npmjs.com/package/concurrently) - to run API Mediation Layer on your computer from CLI
  

## Quick start

Build all modules:

    ./gradlew build

You need to install `concurrently` globally:

    npm install -g concurrently

Run all service on local machine:
    
    npm run api-layer


## Run unit tests

Unit tests for Java and TypeScript modules are executed as a part of the build process.


## Measure code coverage

For the code coverage of all modules, run:

    ./gradlew coverage

The code coverage for new code should be higher that 60% and should not be decreased for existing code.

The reports in HTML format are stored `build/reports/jacoco/test/html/index.html` for each Java module.

For the code coverage of a single Java module (for example `discovery-service`), run:

    ./gradlew :discovery-service:jacocoTestReport

You can an individual test class by:

    ./gradlew :discovery-service:test --tests com.ca.mfaas.discovery.staticdef.ServiceDefinitionProcessorTest


## Run integration tests

Follow the instructions in [Integration Tests](integration-tests/README.md) to run integration tests.


## Contributor guidelines

Follow the guidelines in [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) to add new functionality.


## Local configuration of services

Follow the guidelines in [Local Configuration](docs/local-configuration.md) to set local environment properties for testing on your local machine include HTTPS setup.

Also if you use IntelliJ Idea [learn how to configure Run Dashboard](docs/idea-setup.md) to use these local configurations.

## Adding services that does not support API Mediation Layer natively

See [Adding Services to API Gateway without Code Changes](docs/static-apis.md).


## API Catalog UI

For more information about the UI of the Catalog see its [README](api-catalog-ui/frontend/README.md).

Commit message:

Configurable certificate validation (#122)
* Refactoring HTTPS tests

* Remove ignored and non-functional tests

* Server certificates errors are ignored when verifySslCertficatesOfServices=false

* Tests for verification of certificates

* Documentation and preparation for a manual test of disabled certificate validadation

README.md, after:

# api-layer

[Build Status](https://wash.zowe.org:8443/job/API_Mediation/job/master/)

The home of Zowe API Mediation Layer

## Prequisites 

Following platform is required to run the API Mediation Layer:

 * Oracle or IBM Java SE Development Kit 8 (http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html or https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/java/jdk/), Java 10 is not supported
  
### Other development prerequisites

Following tools are required to build and develop API Mediation Layer:

 * Node.js 8.11.1 or higher (https://nodejs.org/en/) - to build UI modules
 * concurently (https://www.npmjs.com/package/concurrently) - to run API Mediation Layer on your computer from CLI
  

## Quick start

Build all modules:

    ./gradlew build

You need to install `concurrently` globally:

    npm install -g concurrently

Run all service on local machine:
    
    npm run api-layer


## Run unit tests

Unit tests for Java and TypeScript modules are executed as a part of the build process.


## Measure code coverage

For the code coverage of all modules, run:

    ./gradlew coverage

The code coverage for new code should be higher that 60% and should not be decreased for existing code.

The reports in HTML format are stored `build/reports/jacoco/test/html/index.html` for each Java module.

For the code coverage of a single Java module (for example `discovery-service`), run:

    ./gradlew :discovery-service:jacocoTestReport

You can an individual test class by:

    ./gradlew :discovery-service:test --tests com.ca.mfaas.discovery.staticdef.ServiceDefinitionProcessorTest


## Run integration tests

Follow the instructions in [Integration Tests](integration-tests/README.md) to run integration tests.


## Security

For more information about how the certificates between APIML services are setup, see [TLS Certificates for localhost](keystore/README.md).


## Contributor guidelines

Follow the guidelines in [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) to add new functionality.


## Local configuration of services

Follow the guidelines in [Local Configuration](docs/local-configuration.md) to set local environment properties for testing on your local machine include HTTPS setup.

Also if you use IntelliJ IDEA, see [learn how to configure Run Dashboard](docs/idea-setup.md) to use these local configurations.


## Adding services that does not support API Mediation Layer natively

See [Adding Services to API Gateway without Code Changes](docs/static-apis.md).


## API Catalog UI

For more information about the UI of the Catalog see its [README](api-catalog-ui/frontend/README.md).
