keystore/README.md, before:

# TLS Certificates for localhost

This document describes how the certificates for default local configuration are generated.

The certificates are used for integration tests as well.

They are signed by local certificate authority (CA) that is created as part of these steps and is trusted by HTTPS clients in the integration tests.

The root certificate of the local CA can be imported to your browser as well.

You can use the provided key store and trust store or create your own version of the key stores and local CA.

Last section of this document shows how to import and trust the local CA certificate on your system.

Key stores:

  * `keystore/local/localhost.keystore.p12` 
    - password: ``password``
    - used for the HTTPS server(s) 
    - contains the server certificate signed by the local CA and private key for the server
    
  * `keystore/local/localhost.truststore.p12` 
    - password: ``trustword``
    - used for HTTPS clients (e.g. integration tests, services using the gateway) 
    - contains the root certificate of the local CA (not the server certificate)

Local CA:

  * `keystore/local_ca/localca.cer`
    - public certificate of local CA
  
  * `keystore/local_ca/localca.keystore.p12`
    - private key of the local CA 


## Generating own certificates for localhost

Use following script:

    scripts/apiml_cm.sh --action setup


## Generating certificate for a new service on localhost

Use the following script in the root of the `api-layer` repository:

    scripts/apiml_cm.sh --action new-service --service-alias <alias> --service-hostname <hostname> --service-keystore <keystore_path> --service-truststore <truststore_path> --service-dname <dname> --service-password <password> --service-validity <days>

The `<keystore_path>` is the path including the extension to the key store that will be generated. It can be an absolute path or a path relative to the current working directory. The key store is generated in PKCS12 format.

The `<truststore_path>` is the path including the extension to the trust store that will be generated. It can be an absolute path or a path relative to the current working directory. The trust store is generated in PKCS12 format.


### Example

If you have the sample service described in the User Guide at [this link](https://github.com/zowe/docs-site/blob/api-mediation-doc/docs/user-guide/api-mediation/api-mediation-onboard-overview.md#sample-rest-api-service) you need to complete the following steps:

1. Go to the directory with the sample service:

        cd <your_directory>/swagger-samples/java/java-spring-boot

2. Make directory for keystore:

        mkdir keystore

3. Call the script:

        <api-layer-repository>/scripts/apiml_cm.sh --action new-service --service-alias petstore --service-hostname localhost --service-keystore keystore/localhost.keystore.p12 --service-truststore keystore/localhost.trustore.p12 --service-dname "CN=Petstore Service, OU=orgUnit, O=org, L=city, S=state, C=country" --service-password password --service-validity 365

4. This generated the certificate and private key to the `keystore` directory. You need to configure the HTTPS for the sample service. This can be done by adding the following properties to the `src/main/resources/application.properties`:
 
        server.ssl.keyAlias=petstore
        server.ssl.keyPassword=password
        server.ssl.keyStoreType=PKCS12
        server.ssl.keyStore=keystore/localhost.keystore.p12
        server.ssl.keyStorePassword=password
        server.ssl.trustStore=keystore/localhost.truststore.p12
        server.ssl.trustStorePassword=password
        server.ssl.trustStoreType=PKCS12

5. Start:

        java -jar target/swaggerhub-spring-boot-sample-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar --server.port=8443 

6. Now you have a service that is using a certificate signed by local CA and will be trusted by your API Mediation Layer.

7. You can onboard the service to APIML by following instructions in ...


## Import the root certificate of local CA to your browser

*WARNING!* You can import the pre-generated certificate only to a browser that you use for development and testing. Everyone has access to the private key.

Import [keystore/local_ca/localca.cer](/keystore/local_ca/localca.cer) to your root certificate store and trust it. 

You can you following command om Mac: 

    $ sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain keystore/local_ca/localca.cer

Commit message:

Updates for Mac
Signed-off-by: Andrea Tabone <andrea.tabone@ca.com>

keystore/README.md, after:

# TLS Certificates for localhost

This document describes how the certificates for default local configuration are generated.

The certificates are used for integration tests as well.

They are signed by local certificate authority (CA) that is created as part of these steps and is trusted by HTTPS clients in the integration tests.

The root certificate of the local CA can be imported to your browser as well.

You can use the provided key store and trust store or create your own version of the key stores and local CA.

Last section of this document shows how to import and trust the local CA certificate on your system.

Key stores:

  * `keystore/local/localhost.keystore.p12` 
    - password: ``password``
    - used for the HTTPS server(s) 
    - contains the server certificate signed by the local CA and private key for the server
    
  * `keystore/local/localhost.truststore.p12` 
    - password: ``password``
    - used for HTTPS clients (e.g. integration tests, services using the gateway) 
    - contains the root certificate of the local CA (not the server certificate)

Local CA:

  * `keystore/local_ca/localca.cer`
    - public certificate of local CA
  
  * `keystore/local_ca/localca.keystore.p12`
    - private key of the local CA 


## Generating own certificates for localhost

Use following script:

    scripts/apiml_cm.sh --action setup


## Generating certificate for a new service on localhost

Use the following script in the root of the `api-layer` repository:

    scripts/apiml_cm.sh --action new-service --service-alias <alias> --service-hostname <hostname> --service-keystore <keystore_path> --service-truststore <truststore_path> --service-dname <dname> --service-password <password> --service-validity <days> --local-ca-filename <localca_filename> --local-ca-password <localca_password>

The `<keystore_path>` is the path including the extension to the key store that will be generated. It can be an absolute path or a path relative to the current working directory. The key store is generated in PKCS12 format.

The `<truststore_path>` is the path including the extension to the trust store that will be generated. It can be an absolute path or a path relative to the current working directory. The trust store is generated in PKCS12 format.

TODO Andrea: Describe all parameters for new-service action

### Example

If you have the sample service described in the User Guide at [this link](https://github.com/zowe/docs-site/blob/api-mediation-doc/docs/user-guide/api-mediation/api-mediation-onboard-overview.md#sample-rest-api-service) you need to complete the following steps:

1. Go to the directory with the sample service:

        cd <your_directory>/swagger-samples/java/java-spring-boot

2. Make directory for keystore:

        mkdir keystore

3. Call the script:

        <api-layer-repository>/scripts/apiml_cm.sh --action new-service --service-alias petstore --service-hostname localhost --service-keystore keystore/localhost.keystore.p12 --service-truststore keystore/localhost.truststore.p12 --service-dname "CN=Petstore Service, OU=orgUnit, O=org, L=city, S=state, C=country" --service-password password --service-validity 365 --local-ca-filename ~/workspace/zowe/api-layer/keystore/local_ca/localca

4. This generated the certificate and private key to the `keystore` directory. You need to configure the HTTPS for the sample service. This can be done by adding the following properties to the `src/main/resources/application.properties`:
        
        server.ssl.keyAlias=petstore
        server.ssl.keyPassword=password
        server.ssl.keyStoreType=PKCS12
        server.ssl.keyStore=keystore/localhost.keystore.p12
        server.ssl.keyStorePassword=password
        server.ssl.trustStore=keystore/localhost.truststore.p12
        server.ssl.trustStorePassword=password
        server.ssl.trustStoreType=PKCS12

5. Repackage the application:

        mvn package

6. Start:

        java -jar target/swaggerhub-spring-boot-sample-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar --server.port=8443 

7. Now you have a service that is using a certificate signed by local CA and will be trusted by your API Mediation Layer.
   You can try it by accessing: https://localhost:8443/v2/swagger.json

8. You can onboard the service to the API Mediation Layer by following instructions in https://github.com/zowe/docs-site/blob/api-mediation-doc/docs/user-guide/api-mediation/api-mediation-onboard-overview.md.


## Import the root certificate of local CA to your browser

*WARNING!* You can import the pre-generated certificate only to a browser that you use for development and testing. Everyone has access to the private key.

Import [keystore/local_ca/localca.cer](/keystore/local_ca/localca.cer) to your root certificate store and trust it. 

You can you following command om Mac: 

    $ sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain keystore/local_ca/localca.cer
