integration-tests/README.md, before:

# Integration Tests

## Introduction

Integration tests are meant to test a functionality that requires multiple running services.
We recommend you test most test cases using unit tests in the module. Use integration tests
only when necessary.

Integration tests require running instances of all services.
These services must be started by the user.

The integration test suite detects when services are started up and are ready to begin testing.

## General Quick start

Perform a general quick start to execute tests within the pipeline.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Deploy and run all services.

2. Run the following shell script:

    ```sh
    ./gradlew runIntegrationTests -Dcredentials.user=<MAINFRAME_USERID> -Dcredentials.password=<PASSWORD>
    ```

3. (Optional) Change the host/port/scheme for the Gateway and Discovery Service with the following shell script:

    ```sh
    ./gradlew runIntegrationTests -Dcredentials.user=<MAINFRAME_USERID> -Dcredentials.password=<PASSWORD> -Ddiscovery.host=<DS_HOST> -Ddiscovery.port=<DS_PORT>  -Dgateway.host=<GW_HOST> -Dgateway.port=<GW_PORT> -Dgateway.scheme=https
    ```

## Localhost Quick start

Perform a Localhost Quick start when you need to run the tests on your local machine.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Deploy and run all services.

2. Run the following shell script:

    ```shell
    ./gradlew runLocalIntegrationTests
    ```

3. (Optional) Run all local tests including all sample services with the following shell script:

    ```shell
    ./gradlew runAllLocalIntegrationTests
    ```

## Manual testing of Discovery Service in HTTP mode

The Discovery Service in HTTP mode is not integrated within the pipeline. You can perfom tests of the Discovery Service in HTTP mode manually.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Set the `spring.profiles` value in the Discovery Service configuration file to `http`.
2. Change the `discoveryServiceUrls` value in the configuration file of the service that you want to register to `http://eureka:password@localhost:10011/eureka/`.
3. Run Discovery Service and verify that you can login into the Discovery Service homepage by using basic authentication with Eureka credentials.
4. Run your service and check that it is registered to Eureka.

## Running all tests (including slow)

Run special integration tests for tests that need to be performed slowly such as when you need to test timeouts.

**Note:** Executing these slow steps with other tests causes
the entire test suite to take longer to execute.

Slow tests are annotated using @Category(SlowTests.class) as in the following example:

```java
    @Test
    @Category(SlowTests.class)
    @SuppressWarnings("squid:S1160")
    public void shouldCallLongButBelowTimeoutRequest() throws IOException {
```

Start the suite of slow tests by executing the following shell script:

```shell
./gradlew :integration-tests:runAllIntegrationTests
```

## Running a Specific Test

```sh
./gradlew :integration-tests:runIntegrationTests --tests org.zowe.apiml.gatewayservice.PassTicketTest
```

## Running specific tests to test Zowe RC 

Run special integration tests to test a Zowe instance as part of the RC testing process.

```shell
./gradlew :integration-tests:runAllIntegrationTestsForZoweTesting
```

Tests annotated with `@Category(TestsNotMeantForZowe.class)` are excluded from this test suite (e.g Discoverable Client tests, PassTicket tests, etc...).

Commit message:

javadoc and doc for refresh controller
Signed-off-by: jandadav <janda.david@gmail.com>

integration-tests/README.md, after:

# Integration Tests

## Introduction

Integration tests are meant to test a functionality that requires multiple running services.
We recommend you test most test cases using unit tests in the module. Use integration tests
only when necessary.

Integration tests require running instances of all services.
These services must be started by the user.

The integration test suite detects when services are started up and are ready to begin testing.

## General Quick start

Perform a general quick start to execute tests within the pipeline.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Deploy and run all services.

2. Run the following shell script:

    ```sh
    ./gradlew runIntegrationTests -Dcredentials.user=<MAINFRAME_USERID> -Dcredentials.password=<PASSWORD>
    ```

3. (Optional) Change the host/port/scheme for the Gateway and Discovery Service with the following shell script:

    ```sh
    ./gradlew runIntegrationTests -Dcredentials.user=<MAINFRAME_USERID> -Dcredentials.password=<PASSWORD> -Ddiscovery.host=<DS_HOST> -Ddiscovery.port=<DS_PORT>  -Dgateway.host=<GW_HOST> -Dgateway.port=<GW_PORT> -Dgateway.scheme=https
    ```

## Localhost Quick start

Perform a Localhost Quick start when you need to run the tests on your local machine.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Deploy and run all services.

2. Run the following shell script:

    ```shell
    ./gradlew runLocalIntegrationTests
    ```

3. (Optional) Run all local tests including all sample services with the following shell script:

    ```shell
    ./gradlew runAllLocalIntegrationTests
    ```

## Manual testing of Discovery Service in HTTP mode

The Discovery Service in HTTP mode is not integrated within the pipeline. You can perfom tests of the Discovery Service in HTTP mode manually.

**Follow these steps:**

1. Set the `spring.profiles` value in the Discovery Service configuration file to `http`.
2. Change the `discoveryServiceUrls` value in the configuration file of the service that you want to register to `http://eureka:password@localhost:10011/eureka/`.
3. Run Discovery Service and verify that you can login into the Discovery Service homepage by using basic authentication with Eureka credentials.
4. Run your service and check that it is registered to Eureka.

**Note:** API Catalog can call refresh of static API definitions on discovery service. Discovery service in HTTP mode protects it's endpoints with basic auth instead of client certificate. If you want this to work, you have to supply additional command line parameters to API Catalog at startup. Default values are `eureka:password`. The same set of parameters exist on Discovery service to configure the username and password for HTTP mode.

    -Dapiml.discovery.userid=**** -Dapiml.discovery.password=****

## Running all tests (including slow)

Run special integration tests for tests that need to be performed slowly such as when you need to test timeouts.

**Note:** Executing these slow steps with other tests causes
the entire test suite to take longer to execute.

Slow tests are annotated using @Category(SlowTests.class) as in the following example:

```java
    @Test
    @Category(SlowTests.class)
    @SuppressWarnings("squid:S1160")
    public void shouldCallLongButBelowTimeoutRequest() throws IOException {
```

Start the suite of slow tests by executing the following shell script:

```shell
./gradlew :integration-tests:runAllIntegrationTests
```

## Running a Specific Test

```sh
./gradlew :integration-tests:runIntegrationTests --tests org.zowe.apiml.gatewayservice.PassTicketTest
```

## Running specific tests to test Zowe RC 

Run special integration tests to test a Zowe instance as part of the RC testing process.

```shell
./gradlew :integration-tests:runAllIntegrationTestsForZoweTesting
```

Tests annotated with `@Category(TestsNotMeantForZowe.class)` are excluded from this test suite (e.g Discoverable Client tests, PassTicket tests, etc...).
